update Jira docs (#1524)
semgrep/semgrep-docs: docs/semgrep-appsec-platform/jira.md

<!-- It's Jira, not JIRA :) -->

The Semgrep Jira integration allows you to create Jira tickets based on your Semgrep Code, Supply Chain, and Secrets findings.

## Prerequisites

* This feature is in a **closed beta**. To request access:
  1. Fill out the [Request access to the Semgrep Jira integration closed beta](https://get.semgrep.dev/Jira-asana-linear-private-beta.html) form.
  2. Contact your Technical Account Manager or Account Executive and let them know you'd like to try the Jira integration.

> * You must have a **Jira Cloud** plan. Jira Data Center (self-managed or on-prem) is not supported. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You must have a **Jira Cloud** plan. Jira Data Center (self-managed or on-premise) is not supported. 
```

1. Sign in to [Semgrep AppSec Platform](https://semgrep.dev/login). 
2. Navigate to **Settings** > **[Integrations](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/settings/integrations)**.
3. If this is your first integration, click **Setup First Integration**. Otherwise, click **Add integration**. In the drop-down menu that appears, select **Jira**.
4. Follow the on-screen instructions to grant Semgrep the necessary permissions and set up the integration.
5. Select the Jira instance you want to connect to when prompted. Choose one instance from the **Use app on** drop-down menu if you have multiple Jira instances.
   * **For deployments that have used a previous version of the Jira integration**: Ensure you're connecting to the same Jira instance you previously connected to. Please get in touch with Semgrep if you want to connect to a different Jira instance.

## Configure the integration

Once you have enabled the Jira integration, you must complete the following steps on Semgrep AppSec Platform's **Integrations** page:

1. Confirm the subdomain for your Jira instance
2. Select the **Default project** where Jira will add the tickets
3. Select the **Issue type** of the tickets to be created

> Click **Save changes** to proceed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Click **Save changes** to proceed.
```

![Jira configuration screen](/img/jira-subdomain.png)
**_Figure._** The Jira configuration screen.

### Create mappings

Optionally, you can customize the Jira field data mappings and indicate which Semgrep fields they should be populated with. Currently, Semgrep supports the mapping of the following issue types:

* Short texts
* Paragraphs
* Drop-down menus
* Checkboxes

![Jira configuration screen for field data mappings](/img/jira-configure-defaults.png)
**_Figure._** The Jira configuration screen for field data mappings.

> Semgrep also supports the use of custom issue types and custom fields.

Reviewer 2: Nit: Maybe something like: "The integration supports the use of custom Jira issue types and custom fields."

To create a mapping:

> * Select the Semgrep product for which the mapping is valid: **Code**, **Supply Chain**, or **Secrets**.

Reviewer: Are these meant to be bullets or <ol>?

If you opt for a drop-down or a checkbox issue type field, verify that:

* There are no misspellings
* No valid options are missing. If your drop-down or checkbox issue type is missing the `Medium` option, Jira cannot create tickets for medium-severity findings.

## Create tickets

### Code

To create tickets for one or more Code findings, you can use the triage button:

* On the **Findings** page
* On an individual finding's **Details** page.

When working on the **Findings** page, you can select and create tickets for individual findings or all findings for a given rule.

:::note
Creating tickets for many findings at once may take some time. Tickets that take longer than 10 seconds to create are shown in the UI once you refresh the page.
:::

![Create Jira ticket - Code](/img/jira-code-findings.png)
***Figure.*** Code triage flow

Once a ticket has been created, a link appears on the right side of the **Findings** page and along the top of an individual finding's details page.

![Jira ticket created - Code](/img/jira-code-ticketed.png)
***Figure.*** Code ticket created

### Supply Chain

> The Supply Chain triage flow creates tickets for all usages of a given vulnerability. Usages can not be selected individually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Supply Chain triage flow creates tickets for all usages of a given vulnerability. Usages cannot be selected individually.
```

To create tickets for one or more Supply Chain findings, you can use the triage button on the:

* **Supply Chain > Vulnerabilities** page
* Individual finding's **Details** page.

![Create Jira ticket - Supply Chain](/img/jira-ssc-findings.png)
***Figure*.** Supply Chain triage flow

![Jira ticket created - Supply Chain](/img/jira-ssc-ticketed.png)
***Figure*.** Supply Chain ticket created

:::caution Limitations

> Tickets can only be created for Supply Chain findings with reachable usages. They cannot be created for **Always reachable** or **Unreachable** findings.

Reviewer: ...?? 
> Tickets can only be created for Supply Chain findings with reachable usages. They cannot be created for **Always reachable** or **Unreachable** findings.

@jsmoxon "can only be created for ... reachable usages" but not for "always reachable"?? Isn't always reachable our **most** reachable state?

Reviewer 2: @zdhickman @jarrydlee can you weigh in here? I've heard conflicting things. My understanding is that once we move to the new SSC UI this will be moot but for now it's good to keep this callout explicit. Thanks!

Reviewer: [Based on the discussion in Slack](https://semgrepinc.slack.com/archives/C02JT6YA5S7/p1714603223928329?thread_ts=1714511039.527759&cid=C02JT6YA5S7), the "reachable" is for all 3 types of reachable:
Always reachable, Conditionally reachable (reachable-if), "Code reachable" (which is not a formal term in the UI).

So the statement "They cannot be created for Always reachable" is false and should probably be updated.

:::

### Secrets

After selecting one or more findings, you can use the triage button on the **Secrets** page to create tickets for them.

![Create a Jira ticket for a Semgrep Secrets finding](/img/secrets-jira.png)
***Figure*.** Secrets triage flow

## Remove your Jira integration

1. Sign in to [Semgrep AppSec Platform](https://semgrep.dev/login), and navigate to **Settings** > **[Integrations](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/settings/integrations)**.
2. Navigate to the **Jira Cloud** section and click **Remove integration**.

Note that deleting the integration:

* **Does not** delete any tickets created by Semgrep

> * **Removes** the link between Jira tickets and Semgrep findings, even if you re-add the integration in the future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Removes** the link between Jira tickets and Semgrep findings, even if you re-add the integration in the future
```
Consistency note

If you opt for a drop-down or a checkbox issue type field, verify that:

* There are no misspellings
* No valid options are missing. If your drop-down or checkbox issue type is missing the `Medium` option, Jira cannot create tickets for medium-severity findings.

## Create tickets

### Code

To create tickets for one or more Code findings, you can use the triage button:

* On the **Findings** page
* On an individual finding's **Details** page.

When working on the **Findings** page, you can select and create tickets for individual findings or all findings for a given rule.

:::note
Creating tickets for many findings at once may take some time. Tickets that take longer than 10 seconds to create are shown in the UI once you refresh the page.
:::

![Create Jira ticket - Code](/img/jira-code-findings.png)
***Figure.*** Code triage flow

Once a ticket has been created, a link appears on the right side of the **Findings** page and along the top of an individual finding's details page.

![Jira ticket created - Code](/img/jira-code-ticketed.png)
***Figure.*** Code ticket created

### Supply Chain

:::info

> Only users who’ve worked with previous versions of the Jira integration can create SCA tickets. Semgrep is working on releasing an update that allows all users to create SCA tickets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Only users who’ve enabled Jira previously can create Supply Chain tickets. Semgrep is working on releasing an update that allows all users to create Supply Chain tickets.
```
Only v2 had the ability to create ssc tickets

:::

The Supply Chain triage flow creates tickets for all usages of a given vulnerability. Usages cannot be selected individually.

To create tickets for one or more Supply Chain findings, you can use the triage button on the:

* **Supply Chain > Vulnerabilities** page
* Individual finding's **Details** page.

![Create Jira ticket - Supply Chain](/img/jira-ssc-findings.png)
***Figure*.** Supply Chain triage flow

![Jira ticket created - Supply Chain](/img/jira-ssc-ticketed.png)
***Figure*.** Supply Chain ticket created

:::caution Limitations

> Tickets can only be created for Supply Chain findings with reachable usages. They cannot be created for **Always reachable** or **Unreachable** findings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tickets can only be created for Supply Chain findings with Always reachable Reachable usages. They cannot be created for Conditionally reachable or Unreachable findings.
```
This is a conservative suggestion, i.e. known to be true.

> Tickets can only be created for Supply Chain findings with reachable usages. They cannot be created for **Always reachable** or **Unreachable** findings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tickets can only be created for Supply Chain findings with reachable usages, including always reachable and conditionally reachable. They cannot be created for **Always reachable** or **Unreachable** findings.
```
This is probably more controversial. I can at least verify that Always reachable appeared under the Reachable filter in my SSC UI. I couldn't verify conditionally reachable.

Pick one suggestion and discard the other.

### Supply Chain

:::info

> Only users who’ve worked with previous versions of the Jira integration can create SCA tickets. Semgrep is working on releasing an update that allows all users to create SCA tickets.

Author: Do I need to be more specific and say something like "Only users who’ve worked with previous versions of the Jira integration can create SCA tickets; support for new users of the Jira integration will be able to create SCA tickets with a forthcoming release" ?
